Update bc-government-organizations-in-github.md (#44)
bcgov/bcdg: docs/use-github-in-bcgov/bc-government-organizations-in-github.md

# B.C. Government organizations in GitHub

> The [Digital Principles for B.C. Government](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/policies-for-government/core-policy/policies/im-it-management#12.1.1.5) urge product teams to work in the open. GitHub is the leading platform for open-source projects. It lets our organization to work with the open-source community to build software, support innovation and save time and money. 

Reviewer: the last sentence here has some grammatical curiosities

We also have the `bcgov-c` organization, where developers can store confidential code.

On behalf of the B.C. Government, the Developer Experience Team manages government GitHub environments. For any questions or concerns, please create a ticket on our [Jira Service Manager](https://citz-do.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/2) (JSM).

## Organizations in GitHub

Recently, we enabled [Single Sign-On (SSO)](#single-sign-on) for `bcgov` and on **August 21, 2024**, we'll enable SSO for `bcgov-c`. The transition helped us understand user needs better, and streamline services.  

Now, we use GitHub Enterprise Cloud, and it hosts the `bcgov` and `bcgov-c` GitHub organizations: 

```mermaid
  graph TD;
A[GitHub Enterprise Cloud] --> B[bcgov]
A --> C[bcgov-c]
```

### `bcgov`

The `bcgov` organization contains public repositories that hold open-source code or public documents developed by B.C. government teams. This organization is **public**.  To align with our Digital Principles, repositories should be hosted in this open repo. The only exception is strong rationale from your Ministry Security Information Officer.

> * Product teams working in the B.C. Government Private Cloud PaaS OpenShift platform should use this organization. The exception is permission to work in [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c)

Reviewer: this seems to be a repetition of the above paragraph?

Author: @jenreiher-bcgov Does this sentence need to be here? I have no insight into what it's trying to convey, so if it needs removal, I'm alright with it.

Reviewer: let's remove!

[Learn more about IDIRs](https://dev.developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/bc-developer-guide/use-github-in-bcgov/github-transition-guide/). 
  
 
### Directions to link your account

If you are a contractor without an IDIR, follow the steps in the [IDIR transition guide](github-transition-guide.md#idirs) before proceeding:

1. [Authentiacate your IDIR](https://github.com/orgs/bcgov/sso)
2. You'll get an email with an invitation to join the **bcgov** GitHub organization. The invitation will be sent to the email address associated with your GitHub account.
3. Your teammates can add you to your team's repositories.

If any technical errors happen, try to [re-authorize your personal access tokens and/or SSH keys](github-transition-guide.md#resetting-github-keys) so they continue to work with SSO enabled. 
 
### SSO timelines for `bcgov-c` 

We begin transition of [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c) into Enterprise GitHub on **August 7, 2024**. After migration completes, we'll enable SSO for [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c) on **August 21, 2024**, using the same process as the SSO enablement for `bcgov`.
  

> For current B.C. Government private organizations part of the legacy `bcgov-ent` Enterprise implementation, we’ll work with your respective Information Management Branches and Information Systems Branches to identify next steps.

Reviewer: this content is not related to bcgov-c, so either needs another heading or the heading above needs to be more generic

# B.C. Government organizations in GitHub

The [Digital Principles for the Government of B.C.](https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/policies-for-government/core-policy/policies/im-it-management#12.1.1.5) urge product teams to work in the open. GitHub is the leading platform for open-source projects. It allows our organization to collaborate with the open-source community to build software, support innovation and save time and money. Using GitHub, teams can:

* Collaborate with the open-source community
* Share and control code versions
* Use tools for team and project management
* Integrate automation tools
* Track issues

> B.C. Government's main organization is [bcgov](https://github.com/bcgov), where we store all open-source code developed by government teams. The `bcgov` organization includes over 1000 repositories. We also have the `bcgov-c`organization, where developers can either permanently or temporarily store confidential code. 

Reviewer: slight nit here, but teams get hung up on this lingo often enough that we have to have whole meetings about it...
teccchnnicalllyyyyy putting code in the open is not the same as open-source code. 

so we probably should say "open code developed by government teams" and if we wanted to elaborate to say "including projects that have open-source and inner-source contribution models" so that it's more obvious these are not the same things...

Author: Added

> On behalf of the B.C. Government, the Developer Experience Team manages government GitHub environments.

Reviewer: we might want to add our contact information for support here, too!

## Organizations in GitHub

> We use GitHub Enterprise Cloud, and it hosts the `bcgov` and `bcgov-c` GitHub organizations: 

Reviewer: I wonder if it's worth having some change management language here so folks know this is new/different than what they might have known in the past? a little clue not to skim

Author: @jenreiher-bcgov if we go with the version or similar in the comment, I'll remove the last sentence: 

Recently, we enabled Single Sign-On (SSO) for `bcgov` and on **August 21, 2024**, we'll enable SSO for `bcgov-c`. The transition allowed us to understand user needs better, and streamline services.  

Now, we use GitHub Enterprise Cloud, and it hosts the `bcgov` and `bcgov-c` GitHub organizations: 

```mermaid
  graph TD;
A[GitHub Enterprise Cloud] --> B[bcgov]
A --> C[bcgov-c]
```

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: nice!! :D 

you still included the png file here - just FYI in case you forgot to delete it!

Author: Interesting, I tried to delete in a commit, but I suppose that approach didn't work.

  graph TD;
A[GitHub Enterprise Cloud] --> B[bcgov]
A --> C[bcgov-c]
```

> Both organizations require users to enable [Single Sign-on](## Single sign-on).

Reviewer: Both organizations require users to enable [Single Sign-on](## Single sign-on) linked to an IDIR account.

Author: Yeah...this was a rush-to-sign-off moment. it's not working in preview, so I'll work on this a bit more.

### `bcgov`

The `bcgov` organization contains public repositories that hold open-source code or public documents developed by B.C. government teams. This organization is **public**.  To align with our Digital Principles, repositories should be hosted in this open repo, unless you have strong rationale from your Ministry Security Information Officer. 

* Product teams working in the B.C. Government Private Cloud PaaS OpenShift platform should use this organization, unless they are given permission to work in [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c)
* Any member of the `bcgov` organization can create repositories

### `bcgov-c`

The `bcgov-c` organization stores permanent, private repositories with confidential source code and documents. This repository is **private**.

> * Use this repository if you need a permanent location for code, or if you're collecting approvals to make the code public.

Reviewer: collecting approvals could maybe be "working towards"? there's more work involved usually than just approvals unfortunately

* Only the Developer Experience team can create repositories in this organization.
    * Request a repository by [submitting a request](https://github.com/BCDevOps/devops-requests/issues/new?assignees=MonicaG%2C+oomIRL&labels=github-repo%2C+pending&projects=&template=github_repo_request.md&title=).

## Single Sign-On 

> To keep access to the bcgov GitHub organization, all users must be authenticated. Contractors without IDIRs must order one before SSO can be enabled. 

Reviewer: To keep access to repositories in the bcgov enterprise

[Learn more about IDIRs](https://dev.developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/bc-developer-guide/use-github-in-bcgov/github-transition-guide/). 
  
 
### Directions to link your account

If you are a contractor without an IDIR, follow the steps in the [IDIR transition guide](github-transition-guide.md#idirs) before proceeding:
 
1. Once you have access again, your teammates with admin access may need to re-invite you to the repositories you had access to before.  
2. Reauthorize your personal access tokens and/or SSH keys so they continue to work with SSO enabled.
    - [Learn more about how to do this](github-transition-guide.md#resetting-github-keys). 
 

> ### Upgrading bcgov-c 

Reviewer: perhaps this should be `SSO timelines` because it includes info about both bcgov-c and others?

We begin transition of [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c) into Enterprise GitHub on **August 7, 2024**. After migration completes, we'll enable SSO for [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c) on **August 21, 2024**, using the same process as the SSO enablement for `bcgov`.
  

> For current B.C. Government private Enterprise organizations, we’ll work with your respective Information Management Branches and Information Systems Branches to identify next steps  

Reviewer: For current B.C. Government private organizations that are part of the legacy `bcgov-ent` Enterprise implementation, we’ll work with your respective Information Management Branches and Information Systems Branches to identify next steps

* Product teams working in the B.C. Gov Private Cloud PaaS OpenShift platform should use this organization unless they are given permission to work in [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c).
* Any member of the `bcgov` organization can create repositories.

> * Existing members of the `bcgov` organization can invite new users to join the organization using the [Just Ask! tool](https://just-ask.developer.gov.bc.ca/). (***Users requesting membership to `bcgov` for themselves will be reviewed and may be declined***) 

Reviewer 2: Should there be instructions here on how to join the bcgov org? I think we would want similar instructions as what was put into [Update README.md](https://github.com/bcgov/.github/pull/5). Maybe we want the instructions in that README to point to the instructions here instead?

Author: > Should there be instructions here on how to join the bcgov org? I think we would want similar instructions as what was put into [Update README.md](https://github.com/bcgov/.github/pull/5). Maybe we want the instructions in that README to point to the instructions here instead?

Hm, I like that idea. That way it's in 1 place rather than another. @jenreiher-bcgov are you alight with that?

Reviewer: yes! one place is always better :)

Reviewer: althhhouuughhh... do we want the one place to be here, or in the readme? 
let's be thoughtful about this, because having the instructions be in DevHub may help us educate folks on other things they may or may not know about GitHub, vs if they never click through it kind of leaves them learning about it in isolation of GitHub.

Reviewer 2: I vote for the one place to be in the bcdg.

## Single Sign-On 

To keep access to repositories in the `bcgov` and 'bcgov-c' organizations, all users must be authenticated with IDIRs. Contractors and employees without IDIRs must order one before SSO can be enabled. 

Learn more about IDIRs and post-authentication steps in [our guide](https://dev.developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/bc-developer-guide/use-github-in-bcgov/github-transition-guide/). 
  
### Directions to link your account

If you are a contractor without an IDIR, follow the steps in the [our guide](github-transition-guide.md#idirs) before proceeding:

1. [Authenticate your IDIR](https://github.com/orgs/bcgov/sso)
2. You'll get an email with an invitation to join the **bcgov** GitHub organization. The invitation will be sent to the email address associated with your GitHub account.
3. Your teammates can add you to your team's repositories.
4. [Re-authorize your personal access tokens and/or SSH keys](github-transition-guide.md#resetting-github-keys).
 
### SSO timelines for `bcgov-c`

> We began transition of [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c) into Enterprise GitHub on **August 7, 2024**. After migration completes, we'll enable SSO for [`bcgov-c`](#bcgov-c) on **August 21, 2024**, using the same process as the SSO enablement for `bcgov`.

Reviewer: Aug 27th

Your product team can only have a **permanent**, private repository in `bcgov-c` if it is a GitOps repository with ArgoCD manifests. 

## Single sign-on is coming to the B.C. government’s GitHub organizations
## Single sign-on 

We enabled single sign-on (SSO) for GitHub. We’re starting with the [bcgov GitHub organization](https://github.com/bcgov). After we finish transitioning [bcgov](#bcgov), we’ll enable other OCIO-managed GitHub organizations. 
  
To keep access to the bcgov GitHub organization, all users must link their IDIRs to their GitHub IDs by **July 30, 2024**. If users don’t complete this by the deadline, they’ll be automatically removed from the bcgov GitHub organization including all the code repositories connected to [bcgov](#bcgov).   

Contractors without IDIRs must order one before SSO can be enabled. 
To keep access to the bcgov GitHub organization, all users must be authenticated. Contractors without IDIRs must order one before SSO can be enabled. 

[Learn more about IDIRs](https://dev.developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/bc-developer-guide/use-github-in-bcgov/github-transition-guide/). 
 

> [Learn more about the timelines and instructions](bc-government-organizations-in-github.md#the-changes). 

Reviewer: we'll need some version of this, but lighter, for the migration to the bcgov-c GitHub organization. we should have dates for this by next week.

Author: I re-purposed the unrefined instructions and changes text the bcgov-c part for now, and once dates, etc. is finalized, I'll re-work the text.

Author: @jenreiher-bcgov  I re-purposed the unrefined instructions and changes text the bcgov-c part for now, and once dates, etc. is finalized, I'll re-work the text.

> 1. If you have a valid IDIR, ask anyone with access to the organization to re-invite you.

Reviewer 2: This should be self serve now and shouldn't require someone else inviting them in.  Maybe something like: 
```suggestion
1. If you have a valid IDIR, follow the instructions at (https://developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/bc-developer-guide/use-github-in-bcgov/bc-government-organizations-in-github/#bcgov) to join the bcgov organization.
```

>     - [Learn how to request access to the bcgov GitHub organization](https://developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/bc-developer-guide/use-github-in-bcgov/bc-government-organizations-in-github/#bcgov). 

Reviewer 2: This probably isn't needed given the above suggestion

Your product team can only have a **permanent**, private repository in `bcgov-c` if it is a GitOps repository with ArgoCD manifests. 

## Single sign-on 

To keep access to the bcgov GitHub organization, all users must be authenticated. Contractors without IDIRs must order one before SSO can be enabled. 

> [Learn more about IDIRs](https://dev.developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/bc-developer-guide/use-github-in-bcgov/github-transition-guide/). 

Reviewer: just noticed this is linking to the wrong thing! it's linking to the draft PR site. And, please use a tracking link.

Reviewer 2: I fixed that in #45. The merge of this PR into main should keep the change in #45
